# FinalGeneWrite (MATLAB)
  The purpose of this project was to allow synthetic biologists to relay specific genetic code sequences to a company that can print genes and proteins through electrochemical synthesis.  Artificial gene synthesis allows synthetic biologists to create specific proteins and genes. This can be done through electrochemical synthesis or light directed synthesis.  Light directed synthesis uses light to remove all of the protecting groups from nucleosides in a DNA strand.  By removing the protecting groups, strands of DNA can couple with eachother easily.  However, indiscriminate removal of protecting groups can lead to some undesired coupling reactions where the DNA strands do not couple in the right place.  Electrochemical synthesis takes advantage of phosphoramidite chemistry and electrochemistry.  Nucleoside phosphoramidites (NPAs) are structurely similar to nucleosides, but have a phosphite group instead of a phosphate group and four different protecting groups. The protecting groups on NPAs can be removed easily through electrochemical methods to allow for the sequential addition of nucleosides at desired locations.  The higher specificity ultimately allowed electrochemical synthesis to become the gold standard for synthetic biologists to create synthetic DNA on an industrial scale.  

  Although it's the gold standard, electrochemical synthesis is sensitive when presented with repeating sequences.  The repeating sequences essentially confuse the DNA printer and cause errors where the wrong nucleoside prints.  Three coupled nucleosides produce a codon that a cell can read in order to synthesize a certain amino acid. Every amino acid, except methionine, has multiple codons that instruct a cell to synthesize it.  By changing one nucleoside, there's potential for the wrong amino acid to be synthesized by a cell.  This results in an incorrect protein which could disrupt cell function.  Furthermore, some organisms lack methods to read certain codons.  If the incorrect nucleoside just so happens to code for the intended amino acid, an organism's cells may not recognize it.  This also disrupts cell function.  
  
  Due to the issues that arise with repeating sequences, companies have a chance of refusing to print them.  When companies do not refuse to print a repeating sequence, they charge more money to synthesize it than a non-repeating sequence.  Synthetic biologists either bite the bullet and pay the extra fees, or meticulously type the repeating sequence to where different codons are used for each instance of a certain amino acid.  These solutions are neither cost-effective nor efficient.  My gene writing program allows synthetic biologists to automate the meticulous rewriting of repeated codons.  The synthetic biologist pastes or types the abbreviated amino acid string into the program, and recieves an unabbreviated version of the same string where each abbreviation is replaced by a random codon corresponding to that specific amino acid. They can also specify which codons to use in the "SpecCodon" file should their project use cells that lack methods to read certain codons. This program can output mRNA, tRNA, and DNA strings.  Replacing the abbreviated amino acids with randomly chosen codons minimizes the chances of repeating nucleosides.  By minimizing these chances, a company using a DNA printer won't charge extra money to synthesize sequences with repeating amino acids.  Synthetic biologists can also increase their efficiency since they no longer waste time on rewriting their entire repeating sequence.
